## September 1, 2022

Today I worked on the signup.js page The issues I ran into were figuring out how to convert the raw password into the cleaned password for the custom User model we built. This involved tracing the User model through the AbstractUserModel then to the BaseAbstractUser to see that our User model is inheriting a method set_password that converts the password into an encrypted string. I was then able to use this method in the view to sent the correct encrypted password to the database.
The other issue I ran into was if the username was taken the page was not informing the user that the signup failed so i added an alert if the signup function returns false

## August 31, 2022

Today I pair programmed with Alex working on the authentication for our website. We used the Authentication cookbook to build the authentication file and the api_user_token view to get the user token generated by djwto during the login for use when protecting the views. We then spent a lot of time tracing back what is happening in the auth file given to us by the cookbook before implementing the login and logout. Both were suprisingly easier than we expected.

## August 30, 2022

Today I worked on making a user profile page. This was the first time that I used the useEvent hook as a replacement for componentDidMount. The ah-ha for the day was from when i tried implementing the useEffect hook code from the react hooks page on learn and it did not work. I had to reorder the arrow functions from useEffect(() => { async getData() {...}}) to useEffect(() => { const getData = async () => {...}} getData()})

## August 29, 2022

Today James and I worked on adding a friends list to the model and the views for the User. Things went mostly smoothly until we ran into a recursion error while doing the detail view for our user model. this error was because our user model has a many2many relation with itself and the encoder was encoding the friends within the friends within friends within the ect... within the user. We got around this by building a second encoder for friends that did not include users in the properties and setting the encoder for the friends property within users to use the friends encoder instead of the users encoder. 

## August 26, 2022

Today I pair programmed with James and we worked on the views for the users microservice. Things went smoothly today I believe. In truth I forgot to do the journal for this day and don't exactly remember if we ran into any issues on this day.

## August 25, 2022

Today we finally got the react issues fixed. These react issues have been a huge pain. React was working on some machines but not others and some people had the node_models folder correctly installed others were not having npm install run correctly. My issues were fixed by changing the line endings from CRLF to LF. Some other people like joyce had to reinstall react I believe. Anyway I am just happy to have it working on everyone's machines

## August 24, 2022

Today I began working with Austin on the google maps api again but then quickly spiraled down the rabbit hole when I attempted to fix our issue of react only refreshing when we rebuilt the react docker container. The reloading issue was caused by our dockerfile. we had copied everything from our frontend app directory that was in the container into a second nested app directory. This was causing react to display from the first app dir but save changes to the second app dir. Once Andrew and I got this working on my machine I pushed it to main and other people began having issues. 

## August 23, 2022

Today I pair programmed with Austin. We began implementing the google maps api after setting up an account. We were able to get a map container to display on react. 

## August 22, 2022

Today me and joyce worked on switching the databases used to postgres instead of sqlite databases. We ran into issues with the django containers connecting to the postgres container. We eventually found out, with the aid of Alex, Daniel and Andrew, that the create_multiple_databases.sh was not correctly creating the multiple databases by going into the postgres container and running the \l command to list the databases. These did not match the number or names we expected. Looking at the command prompt for the postgres container led to the error bin/bash^M file location not found when the container was attempting to run the create_multiple_databases.sh file. We fixed this on my machine by changing the end of line sequence from CRLF to LF. After I pushed the changed to main and Joyce pulled them we found out the issue was persisting on her machine...

The ah-ha of the day was figuring out that the bash file was not running because of the end of line sequence was set to CRLF instead of LF.

## August 19, 2022

Today we worked on setting up the project together in main

We started by creating a docker-compose.yml file and building the postgres and react containers in it.
We then created 3 different containers: events, messenger, and users and made a django project and app in each of the three containers and connected them to the database container.
we also worked on drawing out out models for when we code the models and views on monday.

The ah-ha moment of the day was gaining a greater understanding of setting up the volumes and databases within the docker-compose.yml.


